David Sarnoff started career at Marconi,
but for
most of his career he was
leading Radio Corporation
of America in various capacities.
RCA went on to create NBC and
other content stations,
and basically they brought,
after successful radio business,
they brought televisions to the market.
So, they had both bought the equipment
business and also content creation.
Just like AT&T,
which owned the network, and
was also charging people for
owning their devices and using them.
At that time, in the early/late 50s and
early 60s in US household
people would spend about 30%
of their household furnishing
budget on just the radios and TVs.
This was an extremely profitable business.
And all of this launched
the consumer electronics
with the invention of transistor radio and
portable radios.
One of the interesting things here is,
as AT&T,
because of the government regulations and
various aspects,
got out of the radio business,
they actually sold,
they had a radio station working for
about 15 years in 1927.
They gave it off to RCA at that time.
But they kept the cables and
the landline network
for carrying the content from
one city to another city.
For the longest time, and
even now, all the TV stations
basically rely on AT&T's
cables to carry content.
So AT&T did stay in that aspect of
the broadcast entertainment industry.